# Introduction

## What is Obsidian Typing?

With Obsidian Typing, you can define specific types of notes, allowing for group-based customizations. Simply associate a note type with a name and folder. All notes within that folder then become members of this type, and new notes of this type automatically find their way to the designated folder.

For each note type, you can leverage a range of customization options:

-   [Headers & Footers](./guides/header-footer.md): Eliminate repetitive templates with autogenerated content that gets added during render-time.
-   [Interactive Links](./guides/link.md): Upgrade your links by turning them into custom React components.
-   [Name Prefixes](./guides/prefix.md): Establish consistent naming conventions.
-   [Field Schema](./guides/fields.md): Outline your desired fields and their specific types.
-   Plus advanced settings like [Hooks](./guides/hooks.md) and [Actions](./guides/actions.md).

## How can I use it?

Harness the adaptability of Obsidian Typing across various domains. The following examples aren't exhaustive but serve to spark ideas for your personal potential applications:

-   **Databases**: Catalog movies, books, or papers by creating types with specific fields. Make addition of new entries a breeze.
-   **Study Organization**: Organize your study materials with note types for courses, lessons, and assignments. Keep track of everything and add context with headers and footers.
-   **Habit Tracking**: Design a system to track daily habits. Log your progress and get recommendations on what to tackle next.
-   **Work Management**: Create interconnected systems that bridge Issues, Projects, Meetings, Colleague, and other note types. See the bigger picture by connecting meeting attendees to meetings or issues to projects.
-   **Custom Knowledge Systems**: Customize Obsidian to your unique needs. Be it crafting semantic wikis, charting ancestries, or undertaking other specialized projects.

## Getting Started

:::caution
The plugin is in the development stage. Once ready, you can find installation instructions at [Installation](./installation.md).
:::

Begin your exploration with the [Quick Start](./quick-start.md) guide for an overview and to set up your first note type. For a comprehensive exploration, follow through with the [Walkthrough](./walkthrough.md).

For detailed insights on individual functionalities, our [Guides](/docs/category/guides) are a great resource. For an in-depth understanding of Obsidian Typing, refer to the [Reference](/docs/category/reference) section.
